1.	The effectiveness trial was actually conducted over three academic years (two per 
school): 2007-8, 2008-9, and 2009-10. Once you restrict to the high school study it is 
just the first two years.
2.	RAND has now completed the efficacy study of ALEKS (although the results are not 
published yet).
3.	On page 2, in one paragraph you mention an observational study, then in the next you 
mention a demonstration of matching. It might be good to elaborate the first to 
mention that the observational study will use matching.
4.	You might want to drop “will” in “Finally, we will conduct a principal stratification 
analysis”
5.	Bottom of p.2, do you want to say this is more than a demonstration, i.e., also a 
comparison?
6.	Define EdTech on first use.
7.	Consider omitting “we will discuss” in “After a brief overview of the three causal 
approaches we will discuss”
8.	The definitions of H, Y, and Z are in the figure caption, but should you also introduce 
those in the text (section 1.1)? These currently aren’t defined until section 3.
9.	Saying ACT-R is a theory of skill acquisition may be incomplete. From act-
r.psy.cmu.edu/about: “ACT-R is a cognitive architecture: a theory for simulating and 
understanding human cognition.” It also models the use of skills, not just acquiring 
them. Also, it seems sufficient to mention ACT-R (i.e., not ACT as well). 
10.	Last paragraph in section 2.1 discusses solution paths, but this is only described later 
in section 2.3. You might consider swapping the order of sections 2.2 and 2.3 and the 
paragraph in section 2.1 may no longer be necessary or can be integrated into the new 
section 2.2. The old section 2.2 might even be better placed after 2.4.
11.	In section 2.2, you mention restricting to year 2 of the high school study, but some 
context is missing. The first paragraph of the paper mentions the effect emerged in 
the second year but doesn’t talk about the HS/MS arms of the study.
12.	Reword “estimated the "out of box" imputation errors also shown in Table 1 as part 
of the random forest regression” to “estimated the "out of box" imputation errors as 
part of the random forest regression, also shown in Table 1.”
13.	Do you mean “log data” in “Treatment schools with mastery data missing…”?
14.	Same sentence, does the reader need a little more context about pairing / 
randomization block?
15.	Omit “problem” in “Problem log data for sections…”
16.	Overall, the discussion of dropping data might be improved by cuing the reader up-
front this was a multistep process, “first … then … … finally”. Was the restriction to 
just the algebra curriculum actually done first? Otherwise it could introduce new 
missingness that was supposed to be captured by the other steps. You also say there 
are 2,091 before mentioning that step and 2,091 after. 
17.	Does dropping what looks like a third of treatment students break the treatment-
control balance achieved through randomization?
18.	Top of page 8 you discuss the long-term nature of the study as an advantage. Another 
advantage may be that effects are measured on a standardized assessment versus 
progress within the tutor. 
19.	Consider omitting “may” in “What is relevant for our purposes is that we may narrow 
down…” or rephrasing this whole sentence and making it the lead-in sentence to the 
next paragraph. “For the current purpose, we narrow down…”
20.	Same paragraph, add “to” before “one” in “problem was set one if” 
21.	Discussion on page 9 about the Rasch model is problematic because much of the 
foundational discussion about the mixture model doesn’t appear until page 17. It may 
be better to do all the setup of H and ? in one place, including text on pages 9, 14, 
and 17. Also, it is not clear how the Rasch model classifies 30% of students as high 
users of hints. Can you explain how occurs?
22.	Should this question be restated to reflect the dichotomization of H? “More precisely, 
would students have achieved higher posttest scores had they requested hints more (or 
less) often?”
23.	Text says table 2 has three estimates but it actually has four. Before diving into the 
weaknesses of the analysis, it would be helpful to summarize the results, and clarify 
what these different estimates are telling us (or the rationale for doing this multiple 
way). Also, please clarify whether the HC3 standard errors were estimated for all of 
the models. Omit zeros for Tz and p2 where they are not applicable. Not sure you 
should say that -.47 is unbelievable.
24.	Shouldn’t it be 70% in, “30% of the treatment group and all of the control group has 
H = 0”. 
25.	Two sentences later you talk about groups with half the treatment students, but should 
those portions be 70 and 30 percent?
26.	Can you look at p. 15 for opportunities to clarify? I had trouble following and 
wondered if there were mistakes. For example, presence or absence of expected value 
symbols doesn’t always seem consistent, and I wondered if the equation “Yi(1,H(0)) 
= Yi” would be clearer with Yi(0) or Yi(Z = 0) on the rhs. In the ratio of sums at the 
bottom half of the two-condition equation, I think you want the mean control group 
outcome in the same match set, but I do not see how the 1-Hj accomplishes that. 
Should it be 1-Zi in the numerator and denominator?
27.	Extra word: “TOT is the the…”
28.	I am unsure of why you say “excessive” in “This analysis suggests that the 
availability of excessive hints actually lowers the treatment”. And the next sentence 
sounds like a conclusive statement rather than something suggested by this analysis.
29.	Missing word in “unlike indirect effects, includes a”
30.	It might be helpful to summarize the mediation direct and indirect effect estimates in 
a table.
31.	Consider omitting “larger” in “We incorporated the model for hint requests, (1), into 
the larger principal stratification model”. 
32.	Are the M’s in equation 3 the dimensions of the vectors? Why do you use U in the 
immediately following text? And should you pick a different superscript than Y in 
equation 4 to distinguish it from the outcome?
33.	Should you just talk about a half-as-important covariate here, since that is the only 
one sensitivity test that excluded zero, and is a stronger assumption? “would predict 
H no better than pretest, or no better than a covariate half as important as pretest. 
These assumptions”
34.	I don’t understand this point, “instead, they require a keen understanding of student 
practice within the tutor.”
35.	Was “the almost complete lack of overlap between hint request behavior in the 
control group (i.e. zero) and in the treatment group” driven by the data restrictions we 
imposed for this study? If so, maybe add, “in our analytic dataset”.
36.	Take a look at the second paragraph on page 22. It is hard to tell if you are supporting 
the second sentence with subsequent text. And maybe you can state what you’re 
saying about testing assumptions more clearly.
37.	In section 6.2, I wonder if “found” is the right word versus “suggested”. Also, maybe 
state the two mediation results a little differently since hints wouldn’t be there unless 
the rest of CTA1 was present. Thus I would say that the analysis suggests its positive 
effects was partially offset by allowing hints. Finally, do the first two analyses really 
address the question of allowing hints versus (perhaps) allowing more than a certain 
amount. And, if so, could there be benefits of hint utilization less than c, but that 
using hints beyond a certain threshold amount then detracts.
38.	First paragraph page 23, consider moving last sentence to be second sentence, or 
move the intervening sentence to the next paragraph.
39.	Maybe modify “may be confident in the fit of a PS model.” to “more confident”
40.	Consider changing “new computerized data” to “new dataset logged by online 
learning systems”
41.	What does “it” mean in “principal stratification includes it in the model”. Maybe say, 
“In contrast, principal stratification models the relationship…”
42.	It may not be clear what you mean by “instead of a simple proportion” 
43.	I did not review the appendix.
